hello it's been here from Venice Telecom
what I just did then was three
variations on the same struggling rhythm
so you're pretty familiar with the
chords G E minor C D we did that in the
first module in that order whatever then
I play the first one playing struggle
the second one I just did we picking
refer the first couple videos listen
information on picking and what we're
going to do in today's lesson which is
there are the interesting stuff is
towards the end we're going to look at
combining strumming and picking that's
the last one I did
so it's dropping with the people
together and that's really when you can
start getting so much interesting sounds
so I'm not gonna run through the
struggling because they're really
familiar with the struggle but I ain't
going to run through the pitting so I'm
going to zoom in on the right hand so
you know what I mean okay so here's the
writing section a magnetar the corner
between the plank versus G chord let's
put our fingers on a G chord and the
pikmin we're going to be doing it's
gonna it's going to be quite a range
between these so make sure you've got
the pinky they're supported here and if
you have trouble getting the strings
make sure you go back and practice the
exercises on right hand picking so the
picking pattern are going to have is
well first of all the direction picks is
going to be in is the same as strumming
so if the strumming rhythm is this
that's the same direction your pics
going to move so the first two dams are
going to be on just a string then we
only go back up on the thinny and then
up on the B
gee
so that's gonna be damn jammed up up
damn on ice drinks so let me just run
through that for
just like that
that's a bit of a quick down up there up
there between the thin edge screen so
just practices while to get it standing
nice and neat so
now the next chord is a minor and the
right hand patterns exactly the same
so that's not amazing then when we go to
our C chord the only thing that changes
is you were playing a string number five
as the first two down so
did it again
and then a last quote is date and
replying the date string as a first
night
do
because we jump around the strings be
more like I said it's it's pretty cool
if you just watch your hand
and don't worry about your left hand too
much you probably have to find you're
looking between hands to get the chords
looking good and then going back to Lord
hang for the for the picking
so just make sure you practice that nice
and slow to get that down down up up
down sanding narcing and cool okay so
let's go through and play this picking
pattern playing the four chords and
we're going to do one bar of each chord
and I'm gonna get breaks in between so
here you go one two three four
actually one
as your City PD I string damn - your D I
pick the D string
so like I said practice that nice and
slow and get really familiar with how it
feels
I'm gonna do it again I'm not going to
stop between the chords you have trouble
this play played a lot of breaks here we
go 1 2 3 4
they have this out picking those cold
patterns and that adds a lot of variety
to display miles from the whole song
snubbing the hallway that's gonna get me
boring off the wall is probably already
know but you had a bit variety
just like that
guys no more water the Sun
so it had even more variety we're going
to run through another exercise now and
I think my clients find that a little
bit easier we're just going to replace
the first two downs with Strong's and
the up up down stills the pics so you
don't have to worry about the base night
you hit you're going to be snug on all
the strings so it's going to sound like
this
they're the last basis I'm picking for
the first to dance
a strong fight again
so because the bass note isn't being
picking up the word battery string
applying let me run through that version
then it breaks between the chords here
we go one two three four
my strong strong
see strong strung up there indeed sir
summer after that again that version
just did a little bit quick up with not
Brice if you have trouble play the
version we just play here we go one two
three four
so there I combined strumming with
picking to add even more interest when
you get good at this technique get at
the end look on the internet and all the
different songs out there and then
invite catwalks and all that sort of
stuff and have a listen heaps of players
because you'll often find players when
we combine these two techniques almost
sort of like together when they're
struggling they'll be picking so as
they're strumming so I'll give you a bit
of an example with those same chords or
something I might do two four
so obviously you can get a lot more
interesting and intricate but right now
just practice those basic examples play
life's hoping it fun adding some variety
to straightforward chord progressions
already added it to one chord
progression just in G E minor C D but
you can add that sort of idea to any of
your chord progressions you're playing
now get fun I'll see you in the next
lesson here at Ben sitcom